The Senior Design project my group has selected is a bias detector for news articles. A notable trend of our political climate is an increasing bombardment of information through the internet. With this ever-increasing amount of information to sift through, it is becoming increasingly difficult to perform due diligence on topics that are important to our day-to-day lives. Assessing the trustworthiness of a source isn’t a small undertaking and doesn’t scale well to the number of articles we are exposed to these days. We hope to leverage AI modelling through Natural Language Processing to simplify this process in a browser extension.
My education has prepared me for this project in a few ways. EECE-3093C, Software Engineering, showed me the process of designing software, and working on a team to do so. I’m planning on leaning on the experience of that class to guide our team-based work for this project. CS-4033, AI Principles and Applications, laid down the fundamentals of the AI models we plan to explore for this project. As a large portion of the project will be the natural language processing, this knowledge will likely be very helpful. EECE-4092, Operating Systems & Systems Programming, taught me how to think critically about design decisions and their consequences. 
My work experience through co-ops has also touched on several related topics. During my time at Intelligent Decision Partners (IDP), I worked on projects related to sentiment analysis, optical character recognition, and natural language processing. I also did some work with web scraping, and I’m expecting this skill to carry over to this project. I’m less familiar with using machine learning than some members of the team, but thanks to this experience, I’m very familiar with the problem we are trying to solve. I also plan on leveraging my time at London Computer Systems (LCS) as a QA analyst to aid our team in designing well-functioning, defect-free software. The extension needs to be user friendly, and I’ve spent time working on user experience during my QA analyst co-op.
I’m excited to work on this project due to a couple of factors. Probably foremost among them is the opportunity to use my knowledge and skills to help people with a real-world problem. One of the reasons I’ve really enjoyed the co-op program at UC is the chance to work on solving actual issues. I find myself most motivated when I can help people with my work. I’m also interested in the topic, as I’ve done work in similar areas during a past co-op. Also, my wife is a political scientist, so I’ve been familiar with some of these issues through her education as well. 
A preliminary approach involves the following steps: extract the text from a given article, use NLP with a trained model to discover bias in the article, assign a score to the bias, display this score to the user through a process that is simple and intuitive. I’ve worked on web scraping before, so the first step should be relatively straightforward. A possible roadblock would be text placed within an image, which might require OCR to analyze. Training a model to detect bias can be done by gathering a large repository of articles that have been rated by humans, then training a model over this dataset. Creating a relevant scoring system will likely be an area of the project with a large consideration for change over the project’s lifetime. Especially with our goal for the software to be user-friendly.
