Cole Hutchins  
09/08/2023  
CS5001  
Professor Annexstein  

My senior design project is a project that I am immensely excited about. Throughout my college and coop experience, I have studied numerous languages, frameworks, and debugging skills. I have worked on a lot of the typical projects you would expect in college courses and applied what I’ve learned towards projects at my co-ops. Now, I am ready for a project that will challenge me and force me to use what I have learned to solve an unfamiliar task. I am thrilled for the new skills I am going to learn, and the existing skills that will be honed. I am also eager to work on a semester long group project and learn from my teammates. 

My four years of classes have more than adequately prepared me for this project. CS 2021 Python Programming taught me the basics of Python, which I have since honed and applied to classwork and projects. CS 2021 also taught me how to transition my C++ and Java skills that I learned in CS1021C CS1 and CS1100 intro to CS  to Python and its libraries, which has proven to be more suitable for my personal projects and CO-OP work than other languages. In CS4071 D&A  of Algorithms, I bettered my critical thinking skills and my overall computer science knowledge. I learned why certain algorithms are used in specific scenarios and discovered a more passionate interest in many computer science topics.

During my CO-OP experiences, I bettered my skills learned in school and gained new skills from the projects I took on. In my first CO-OP at LCS as a quality assurance analyst, I made sure the developers code was up to specifications and tested edge cases. I learned critical thinking skills and the basics of debugging. My next CO-OP at GE I was a software developer and learned about Python libraries and worked on projects involving large sets of data. My final three CO-OPs were at Kinetic Vision as a Machine Learning and Training Data CO-OP. I learned a great deal about machine learning and artificial intelligence during these semesters. I trained models on large data sets, improved models, and used data to drive innovation. I got to see how real-life data that I collected could be used to improve performance. I believe that my extensive python knowledge combined with my expertise in the field of machine learning will allow me to be a very effective collaborator on this project. 

My motivation for this project stems from the topic it falls into and the learning that can be derived from it. I am very excited to be able to use my machine learning knowledge from my last CO-OP throughout this project. To be able to watch our model slowly get better at detecting bias is something that I am very much looking forward to. I am also eager to learn more about machine learning and to be able to work on a project from the bottom up. Scoping this project and planning it out for the fall semester before coding in the spring semester will allow me to see both the planning and execution of an extensive project. I am excited to start this project due to the subject matter and challenges of the work.

To approach this project, our team will need to research everything that a bias detector entails.  I want everyone on our team to be able to accurately describe how we expect to train our model and what training data would best suit the model.  With everyone having a good understanding of the end goal and how to get there, it will make collaboration between roles much more cohesive. Our team should then be able to clearly define what bias is, and work to get our model as accurate as possible. Defining what exactly bias is allows our team to track performance and not get lost while trying to improve. Once our model can approach the 80% range and above for accuracy, we may need to tweak our training methods, as in my experience diminishing returns often appear after this metric. I will be happy if our model can accurately predict bias more than 90% of the time. This may be a lofty goal as we do not have the computing power to train as quickly as corporations can, but I still would like to see this as the goal. Depending on how long it takes to get our model functional, we may also want to make our program a web extension. This would allow a more streamlined process and make it actually useful instead of just being able to perform.  This project will be successful if we can get a model that can predict bias correctly over 90% of the time, and  I will be very happy if we can get it working as a web extension as well.
